# Personal Portfolio

This README will be working as a notebook that includes development information and notes, and the goal is to serve, along with the commit messages, as a source of knowledge for future Django projects.

## Description

This is a small personal portfolio project created with Django.<br>

This project was created and developed based on Udemy course<br>
> **"Django 3 - Full Stack Websites with Python Web Development"**, created and presented by Nick Walter.

You can find it on **Udemy** by clicking [here](https://www.udemy.com/course/django-3-make-websites-with-python-tutorial-beginner-learn-bootstrap/)

### Notes

As a Django project, this project needs a running server to display its contents.

First off, start the server by issuing:

> python3 manage.py runserver

After that, open the **localhost:8000** url in your browser to land on the Home page of the project.


The website is hosted at pythonanywhere.com servers, at
http://dbkrelingyahoo.pythonanywhere.com/

Steps to configure pythonanywhere.com for the first time

- create an account
- from the main dashboard, fire up a bash emulator console and clone your project from github
- create a virtual env referencing python v3.8 as the python version:

        $ mkvirtualenv --python=/usr/bin/python3.8 portfoliovenv

    To access the virtual environment in next visits, enter:

        $ workon portfoliovenv

- run server migrate to create the database for your site:

        $ python manage.py migrate

- install dependencies: django and pillow

        $ pip install django pillow

- from another browser tab, access the pythonanywhere dashboard, and go to 'Web' on the top right corner, and then:

    - Provide the absolute path of your source code;
    - Provide the working directory of the code of your website;
    - Edit the wsgi.py file that the tool provides you (/var/www/dbkrelingyahoo_pythonanywhere_com_wsgi.py).
        Remove everything from the file except the part for Django (you can then remove the header of the section,
        leaving the imports at the top of the file).
    - change the path (line 6) to the path of your project: path = '/home/dbkrelingyahoo/personal_portfolio_project'
    - change the reference to the settings file on line 10:
        os.environ['DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE'] = 'personal_portfolio.settings'
    - set the name of your virtual environment.

- Go to the top of the dashboard and reload your server.

And the last step is to add the website address generated by pythonanywhere to the list of allowed hosts in
your settings.py file. You can do it via github commit or via the pythonanywhere tool. It will be like this:

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['dbkrelingyahoo.pythonanywhere.com']

- Reload the site on the server via Web dashboard in python anywhere.

### Adjustments
 In order to have all your local Graphical Interface up and running in the server, you have to upload the database file to github/server as well, otherwise the data will not be there.

Another important change we should do when the site is put in production is to set  'Debug = False' in the settings.py file of the pythonanywhere stack. This way, when a page is not found, there will be no debug information displayed on the screen.
